SEC The Government

  PARA 1

    The Government shall be the only body responsible for the establishment and management of the Republic of Samland.

  PARA 2

    The Government shall have all the powers it deems appropriate for the promotion and protection of the state of Republic of Samland.

  PARA 3

    The Government shall observe the rules of natural justice.

  PARA 4

    The President, Ministers, and Secretaries shall be collectively known as "Members of Government".

  PARA 5

    Any Member of Government may have multiple roles as deemed necessary.

SEC The President

  PARA 6

    The Government shall be chaired by the President of the Republic of Samland who shall be responsible for the work of the Government and shall represent the Republic of Samland in its relations with other entities.

  PARA 7

    The President may appoint and dismiss the Secretaries of the Government.

  PARA 8

    The President shall delegate special tasks or and departmental work to appropriate Secretaries.

  PARA 9

    The President shall grant citizenship of the Republic of Samland.

SEC Ministers

  PARA 10

    The Government shall include Ministers who represent the people of the Republic of Samland.

  PARA 11

    Ministers shall be elected by the people of the Republic of Samland through a democratic electoral process.

  PARA 12

    Ministers shall serve as representatives of their constituents and shall participate in the legislative process, including proposing, reviewing, and voting on new laws and amendments.

  PARA 13

    The term of office for a Minister shall be defined by an electoral law passed by the Government.

SEC Secretaries

  PARA 14

    Secretaries of the Government shall be appointed by the President from among the elected Ministers.

  PARA 15

    Secretaries shall be responsible for specific departments and shall carry out the departmental work as delegated by the President.

  PARA 16

    To be eligible for appointment as a Secretary, a Minister must demonstrate expertise and experience relevant to the department they will oversee.

  PARA 17

    The appointment and dismissal of Secretaries shall be at the discretion of the President, in accordance with the needs of the Government.

SEC Orders and Contracts

  PARA 18

    The Government shall be bound by the contracts it enters into.

  PARA 19

    The President, Vice-President and the appointed Secretaries may issue Orders which shall legally bind the Government and any Person finding him or herself within jurisdiction of the Republic of Samland.

  PARA 20

    All Orders of continuous application shall remain binding in so far as they do not contravene the Laws of the Republic of Samland or their operation is terminated or altered by an Act of the Government passed in accordance with the Law.

  PARA 21

    All Orders and decisions of the President, Vice-President and the appointed Secretaries which have been completed or otherwise fulfilled shall remain valid.

SEC Common Law

  PARA 22

    The Government shall have the authority to propose new laws and amendments to existing laws as it deems necessary for the welfare and development of the Republic of Samland.

  PARA 23

    Any proposed law or amendment shall be subject to review and approval by the Government through a formal legislative process.

  PARA 24

    The process for proposing, reviewing, and enacting new laws or amendments shall be defined by an internal procedure established by the Government and made publicly accessible.

  PARA 25

    All new laws and amendments shall be documented and published in an official gazette of the Republic of Samland.

  PARA 26

    The Government shall ensure that all laws and amendments are consistent with the principles of justice and the fundamental rights of the citizens of the Republic of Samland.

SEC Effective Date

  PARA 27

    This Act shall take effect immediately upon publication in the official gazette of the Republic of Samland.

CHAP 1 - Amendment 1

  SEC The Vice President

    PARA 28

      The Vice President of the Republic of Samland shall serve as the deputy to the President and shall assist in the execution of the President's duties.

    PARA 29

      The Vice President shall assume the responsibilities of the President in the event of the President's incapacity, absence, or inability to perform their duties.

    PARA 30

      The Vice President may be appointed by the President.

    PARA 31

      The Vice President may be tasked with specific duties or represent the President in certain matters as delegated by the President.

    PARA 32

      The Vice President may propose legislative measures, participate in Government meetings, and hold other duties as deemed appropriate by the President.

    PARA 33

      In the event of the President's resignation, removal, or death, the Vice President shall assume the office of the President for the remainder of the term or until a new President is elected.

    PARA 34

      The Vice President shall be subject to the same eligibility requirements as the President and shall uphold the laws of the Republic of Samland.

